.TH TABLATOR "1" "October 2017" "tablator 4.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tablator - The Universal Table Translator for Astronomy
.SH SYNOPSIS
tablator [options] [INPUT] [OUTPUT]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tablator is a utility for converting tables in astronomy into
different formats.  Tablator can read and write tables in fits, ipac
table, hdf5, votable, json, json5, csv, and tsv, and can write html,
SQL commands, and SQLite databases.  The emphasis is on speed, so all
conversions are done in memory.
.PP
Unless passed the \fB\-\-input-format\fR option, tablator attempts to
guess the formats of the input file by looking at the file extension.
If it can not guess the format of the input file, then it will try all
of the formats it understands.
.PP
Tablator also tries to deduce the format of the output file by looking
at the file extension.  If OUTPUT is a single hyphen (-), then the result
is written to standard output.
.PP
The supported file types and their recognized extensions are
.TP
.B JSON
js, json
.TP
.B JSON5
js5, json5
.TP
.B VOTable
xml, vot, vo
.TP
.B HDF5
h5, hdf, hdf5
.TP
.B Comma Separated Values (CSV)
csv
.TP
.B Tab Separated Values (TSV)
tsv
.TP
.B FITS
fits
.TP
.B IPAC Table
tbl, no extension
.TP
.B Text
txt
.TP
.B HTML
html
.TP
.B Postgres compatible SQL
postgres
.TP
.B SQLite compatible SQL
sqlite
.TP
.B Oracle compatible SQL
oracle
.TP
.B SQLite single file database
db
.PP
Note that a file with no extension (e.g. \fBmytable\fR) is considered an IPAC table by default.
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
show a help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-input-format\fR=\fI\,FORMAT\/\fR
Format of the input file.  Allowed values for FORMAT are
.br
.B json
.br
.B json5
.br
.B votable
.br
.B hdf5
.br
.B csv
.br
.B tsv
.br
.B fits
.br
.B ipac_table
.TP
\fB\-\-output-format\fR=\fI\,FORMAT\/\fR
Format of the output file.  Allowed values are those taken by the \fB\-\-input-format\fR option and
.br
.B text
.br
.B html
.br
.B postgres
.br
.B sqlite
.br
.B oracle
.br
.B db
.SH "EXAMPLES"
To convert an HDF5 file named mytable.hdf5 to fits
.PP
.br
.B tablator mytable.hdf5 mytable.fits
.TP
To convert a VOTable file named mystery.table to a JSON file named mystery_json.table.
.PP
.br
.B tablator --input-format=votable --output-format=json \e
.br
.RS
.B mystery.table mystery_json.table
.RE
.TP
To convert a VOTable to an SQLite database, select only ra, dec, and object, sort by object, and write a JSON file
.PP
.br
.B tablator mytable.xml mytable.db
.br
.B sqlite3 -csv -header mytable.db """select ra,dec,object from mytable order by object;""" \e
.br
.RS
.B | tablator --input-format=csv - result.json
.RE

.SH COPYRIGHT
2014-2017 California Institute of Technology

